PRESS DIGEST- British Business - Jan 1 Jan 1 (Reuters) - The following are the top stories on the business pages of British newspapers. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy. An internal investigation has begun at BP Plc into whether the oil company's in-house currency traders have been involved in a foreign exchange-rigging scandal. (thetim.es/14ddNdf)  GOLDMAN SACHS' BRITISH BANKERS ARE IN THE MONEY      More than 120 London-based bankers working for Goldman Sachs Group Inc shared payouts worth more than 350 million pounds ($545.51 million), making the Wall Street investment bank's most senior staff by far the best-paid in Britain, according to newly disclosed figures. (thetim.es/1y7UFtL) The Qatari-Canadian consortium seeking to wrestle control of Canary Wharf has urged investors to accept a 2.6 billion pound takeover bid, declaring that the property estate's tangled structure needs tidying up. (thetim.es/1Hh8qaT) The head of Tesco Plc's remuneration committee is to step down from the role in the latest overhaul of the supermarket's board of directors. Stuart Chambers, the former chief executive of glassmaker Pilkington who has sat on Tesco's board since 2010, will be succeeded as chair of the committee by  non-executive Deanna Oppenheimer on 1 January but will remain on the board. (bit.ly/1Hh4OWr) BAE Systems Plc will be taking on a record 710 apprentices in 2015 as the company looks to expand its training programmes to help meet its growing workload. (bit.ly/13TMzYo) Scottish nurse Pauline Cafferkey is to be given a new anti-viral drug to help her fight Ebola - and the next few days will be "critical" for her, doctors say. The 39-year-old, the first person to be diagnosed with Ebola in the UK, has also received convalescent plasma from donors who survived the disease. It contains antibodies that doctors hope will help her fight the virus, which she contracted while treating Ebola patients in West Africa. (bit.ly/1I0G438) THOUSANDS OF CITY LINK WORKERS LOSE THEIR JOBS     The administrators of courier firm City Link have announced 2,356 job losses after a bid to buy the company failed. Many of the firm's workers found out about its collapse on Christmas Day and had been warned to expect "substantial redundancies". Administrators at EY said 371 people have been retained to deal with remaining parcels and to assist in realising the company's assets and winding down its operations. (bit.ly/1xA64Qn) All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.