Before the Beatles’ First LP  The photograph on the cover of “Modernity Britain, 1957-1962” shows a family of four sitting raptly in a middle-class living room and gazing at a fuzzy black-and-white television set. The mother, cigarette in hand, bears a certain resemblance to Margaret Thatcher, who was elected to Parliament in 1959. It is a safe bet that Thatcher herself did not spend much time watching TV in these years. In October 1961, David Kynaston reports, Prime Minister Harold Macmillan’s diary noted the promotion to ministerial rank of “Mrs Thatcher, a clever young woman MP.”In this third volume of Mr. Kynaston’s projected history of the United Kingdom from the end of World War II to 1979 (when Thatcher became prime minister), he adds yet more fascinating detail to his extraordinary pointilliste portrait of postwar British society. Drawing on news accounts, diary entries, social histories and archives, he captures British life in palaces and housing projects, ministries and courts, theaters and factories. The details are invaluable in themselves and, almost preternaturally, morph into a holistic view of a Britain that is oh-so-different from the one we know now.“Modernity Britain” concentrates on a period of significant change that, oddly, lacked a defining event. “Austerity Britain” (2008), the first volume of Mr. Kynaston’s history, had the 1948 Olympic Games as a bright moment in an otherwise dark time of privation. “Family Britain” (2009) began with the 1951 Festival of Britain, which rose on London’s devastated South Bank as a symbol of recovery; the years of that second volume, 1951-57, saw the premature death of a beloved king and the coronation of a young queen, ushering in a new Elizabethan Age. If there is a high point in “Modernity Britain,” it is the not very suspenseful general election of 1959, which returned Harold Macmillan’s Conservative government with a comfortable majority. But perhaps that’s the point: quiet but solid achievement paving the way for a brighter future. Or, as Mr. Kynaston concludes: “Modernity Britain, yes; but also—at long last—opportunity Britain.”Opportunity meant, in part, a change in the material surroundings of the average home and the invasion of technology’s marvels. What the English liked to call “the box” became the focus of the living room, and Mr. Kynaston devotes a great deal of space to its increasing importance as a shaper of the culture, high and low. The nighttime soap “Coronation Street,” set among a dowdy cluster of terraced houses on the outskirts of Manchester, made its debut in December 1960 and, amazingly, is still going strong today. With a viewership of nearly half the national population by the end of 1961, “Coronation Street” found a champion in the highbrow Spectator magazine, which defended it against such toffee-nosed intellectuals as Doris Lessing, who said of television generally: “The monster is too strong for the best of us.”Of course, television sets were only one of a host of domestic appliances, from refrigerators to washing machines, that had become, by the late 1950s, something like a household entitlement. Buying on credit—“hire purchase,” as the British termed it, or more cynically still, the “never never”—made ownership possible for millions and fueled the economy. It was the profusion of consumer goods in most British homes that allowed Macmillan to tell the British people, in 1957, that they had never had it so good—and they believed it. The stirrings of bigger cultural shifts were evident as well: The unbanning of “Lady Chatterley’s Lover” in 1961, after a courtroom trial, ended the censorship of books, although the Lord Chamberlain would continue to regulate theatrical productions until the mid-1960s.However iconic objects and events become, Mr. Kynaston’s focus includes people, too. In 1957, Queen Elizabeth II gives her first televised Christmas speech to the nation (another “program” still going strong today). We get a sampling of a qualifiedly favorable review, from the same year, of Judi Dench’s professional debut, as Ophelia at the Old Vic: “has talent which will be shown to better advantage when she acquires some technique to go with it.” Grade-school friends reconnect by chance on a station platform: We see “Mike (but soon Mick) Jagger” bound for the London School of Economics and Keith Richards on his way to Sidcup Art College.And in a surreal encounter between old and new, Malcolm Muggeridge, banned for life from the BBC for daring to criticize the queen in print back in 1957, “dropped into a teenage rock-and-roll joint” in Hamburg, Germany, in June 1961. As he recounted in his diaries: “The band were English, from Liverpool, and recognised me. Long haired; weird feminine faces; bashing their instruments, and emitting nerveless sounds into microphones. In conversation rather touching in a way, their faces like Renaissance carvings of saints or Blessed Virgins. One of them asked me: ‘Is it true that you’re a Communist?’ No, I said; just in opposition. He nodded understandingly; in opposition himself in a way. ‘You make money out of it?’ he went on. I admitted that this was so. He, too, made money. He hoped to take back £200 to Liverpool.”There is plenty of politics and a fair bit of economics in “Modernity Britain,” with more than a hint of Macmillan inflating and deflating for short-term political advantage and damn the consequences. Only two African colonies achieved independence in these years (the Gold Coast as Ghana in 1957 and Nigeria in 1960), but the celebrated “Wind of Change” so apparent to Macmillan on his 1960 tour of Africa—which ended with a controversial speech before the South African parliament—led him to plan the dismantling of empire with all deliberate speed. There was some pushback in his own ranks, but clearly the days of Churchillian imperialism in the Tory Party were over.Across the aisle, the Labour Party was struggling with two albatrosses: its position on behalf of unilateral nuclear disarmament; and the infamous Clause Four of its constitution, which called for the nationalization of many industries, an idea that grew less and less popular in the postwar years. Mr. Kynaston chronicles the heroic efforts of Labour’s leader, Hugh Gaitskell, to nullify or modify these positions against enormous entrenched opposition from the trade unions and party stalwarts. He acquired an unlikely ally on the nuclear question in Aneurin Bevan, the acknowledged leader of Labour’s left wing, who declared that adhering in advance to a unilateralist stance would send a British foreign secretary “naked into the conference chamber.”Sadly, Bevan would succumb to cancer at 62 in July 1960. He was hailed by political friend and foe alike amid “a rush of deep national emotion that the departure of no other statesman, bar Winston Churchill, would evoke,” as the London-based New Yorker journalist Mollie Panter-Downes put it. Churchill himself made a rare visit to hear the tributes to Bevan in the House of Commons, where they had often sparred. Gaitskell, one of the greatest prime ministers Britain never had, died at age 56 in January 1963, just outside the purview of “Modernity Britain.” It is good to be reminded of this outstanding pair of statesmen, whose fight for a more mainstream party would eventually be won by New Labour, ushering in 13 consecutive years of government between 1997 and 2010.An odd feature of Mr. Kynaston’s magnum opus is that each volume is longer than its predecessor. Even so, “Modernity Britain,” at roughly 750 pages of text, ends puzzlingly and abruptly in mid-1962, even though the rest of the year included Prime Minister Macmillan “sacking the wrong half of his cabinet,” as it is said, and Gaitskell’s passionate “A Thousand Years of History” speech against Britain joining the European community—a speech that reverberates today ever more as the EU wobbles. But “Modernity Britain” is so packed with compelling details that the narrative’s symphonic edifice, and not the ending’s dying fall, is what will remain in the reader’s mind.