Cities Set to Take Minimum-Wage Stage The nation’s battle over raising the minimum wage is set to shift largely to cities like Los Angeles and New York over the coming year, pitting business groups against local governments weighing measures to address sluggish wage growth for the lowest-paid workers.Fourteen states raised their wage floors in 2014, though few are expected to act this year, because of a lack of statewide elections. Experts also say a shift in federal law appears unlikely after the Republican takeover of Congress.So cities—encouraged by the 




      Obama




       administration—are gearing up for new debates after Seattle, Chicago and Louisville, Ky., all approved city-specific pay floors last year. More than a dozen large cities and counties now have their own standards, and the new wave of initiatives could widen the patchwork of minimum-wage laws that already has many states and cities above the national minimum of $7.25 an hour.“Voters and local governments have heeded the public’s demand for higher wages,” said Christine Owens, executive director of the National Employment Law Project, an organization that supports wage increases.Los Angeles and New York, among other cities, are considering moves to support workers in low-paying service jobs in areas of the country where the cost of living is elevated. Lawmakers in Portland, Maine, proposed an increase to $9.50 an hour from the state’s $7.50-an-hour level. The higher wage would bring the city closer to nearby Boston and Hartford, Conn., where the minimum wage is rising because of statewide increases.And in Tacoma, Wash., the minimum wage could increase to $15 an hour if supporters succeed in putting the question on the ballot in a coming city election.Lawsuits filed by business groups could push back against the efforts. In Seattle and Los Angeles, where the city council set a minimum wage for hotel employees, separate lawsuits contend the new laws are illegal because they set different standards based on the size of a business and other characteristics.Toppers Pizza Inc., a Wisconsin-based chain, says the variety of standards is among the biggest challenges it faces. The firm has opened stores Minnesota, where the minimum wage climbed on Jan. 1, and is looking to grow in Illinois, where an increase is under consideration.Prices at some stores will increase because of the wage bumps, said Vice President Scott Iversen. “How much can you push the price of your pizza and still make it a value for customers?” he asked. “There’s a risk of declining order counts.” Some big businesses stepped directly into the debate in 2014. Gap Inc., Costco Wholesale Corp. and others pledged to pay workers above the minimum wage and won plaudits from President Barack Obama for that stance. 
Wal-Mart Stores
 Inc.,


       which has faced protests over its pay practices, said in October that it intends to eventually pay all its employees more than the prevailing minimum. Less than 6,000 of the retailer’s 1.3 million U.S. employees made the minimum wage, Wal-Mart said last fall. The nation’s largest private employer has remained neutral on the president’s proposal to raise the federal wage.In consecutive State of the Union addresses, Mr. Obama called on Congress to lift the federal minimum wage from $7.25 an hour, but a bill to raise the rate to $10.10 an hour never emerged from Congress. A national change now seems unlikely with Republican leaders, who have opposed an increase, now setting the agenda in both chambers of Congress.The minimum wage became an issue during incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s re-election campaign this past fall. He opposes an increase, citing a widely held GOP view that such a measure would restrain businesses and hurt the overall economy. A federal wage increase would “destroy between half a million and a million jobs,” he said during his campaign.Several business groups view a federal increase as unlikely in the next two years. “I don’t see any way this Congress takes up the minimum wage,” said Eric Reller, spokesman for National Federation of Independent Business. “We believe this Congress will be more friendly to small businesses.”The administration doesn’t view the lack of a new federal standard as a failure but instead touts the 14 states that acted to increase their wage floors in 2014 as victories showing the president’s influence.Administration officials say giving workers a boost would help the overall economy. Modest wage growth has been a key factor blamed for holding back stronger economic growth. In November, U.S. average hourly wages picked up a bit, growing 2.1% from a year earlier. That is slightly ahead of the rate of inflation.“There is a grass-roots movement to raise wages in this country,” said White House senior adviser Daniel Pfeiffer. “The president is calling on states, cities and companies to raise wages and pay workers more.”Already, relatively few Americans earn the federal minimum wage because more than half of states have set levels above the $7.25-an-hour standard. The first paycheck of the year will be larger for 2.3 million workers in 21 states and the District of Columbia, where pay for increases went into effect at the start of the year, according to the Economic Policy Institute. In total, 3.3 million workers were paid at or below the minimum wage as of 2013, according to the latest Labor Department data. That represented 4.3% of all hourly workers. Those figures are likely to decrease in coming years as states and cities move above the federal floor.Meanwhile, few states, if any, will pass statewide increases in 2015, in part because only three states will hold gubernatorial elections. In 2014, when 38 gubernatorial elections were held, voters in four states passed wage increases in November, and other legislatures took up the issue to avoid a ballot question.One 2015 possibility is Kentucky, which will elect a new governor to replace term-limited Democrat Steve Beshear. The state’s largest city, Louisville, already passed an increase to $9 an hour and the state house approved a bill last year that failed to pass the senate.