Dollar Poised to Continue Advance Many currency investors and strategists predicted the dollar would strengthen throughout 2014, citing a more robust U.S. economy and a monetary policy that would diverge from approaches taken elsewhere. The markets broadly expected the Federal Reserve to end its bond-buying program and raise interest rates. Many also anticipated that monetary officials elsewhere, such as at the European Central Bank and the 






            Bank of Japan
,


       would further ease policies in a bid to stimulate growth and lift consumer prices, ultimately weakening their respective currencies. The expected higher U.S. interest rates would boost returns on dollar-denominated assets, drawing yield-hungry investors to the greenback and away from the currencies of countries with lower rates, such as Switzerland and Sweden.But U.S. economic data didn’t improve consistently until the summer. Bond-buying ended, but benchmark interest rates were kept in place, delaying the dollar’s liftoff against other developed-market currencies. Meanwhile, the ECB didn’t make strong policy changes in its fight against anemic inflation until around midyear, and the BOJ waited until the start of the fourth quarter to act, allowing time to gauge the impact of an April sales-tax increase. As the U.S. economy’s performance began to separate from those of other developed markets, though, investors piled into bullish dollar bets against the yen and the euro, as well as other currencies, which accelerated the greenback’s ascent.More of the same is anticipated for 2015. The dollar is expected to continue its upward trajectory on the back of improving U.S. economic data and a Fed interest-rate increase expected sometime near the third quarter. Meanwhile, other central banks, including the ECB and BOJ, are expecting modest growth in their respective economies and are continuing along paths of easier monetary policy, which likely would weigh on the euro, yen and other currencies.