Fiction Chronicle: Graceful Mastery  Dilettantism is the bane of the short-story collection. The majority of such books that come out each year are debut offerings and the stories therein produced in creative-writing programs. The authors are on the make, more attracted to the convenience of the form than its artistic possibilities. The collections are really meant to showcase their authors’ promise, not survive as lasting work, and most are top-heavy with a few hits that were already published in Granta or the New Yorker and padded out with polished misfires. Yet there remain a few dedicated practitioners of the short story, and Edith Pearlman is one to be cherished. “Honeydew” (Little, Brown, 279 pages, $25) is the 78-year-old writer’s fifth collection, following “Binocular Vision” in 2011, which finally brought her a modicum of long-overdue attention. The 20 stories here are vinegary, rueful, droll, humane and endlessly inquisitive. Though intricately constructed, they are slight in drama and emphasis, set down like a light footprint that nevertheless fixes itself in one’s memory as though pressed in wet cement.Many of Ms. Pearlman’s stories take place in the fictional town of Godolphin, Mass. The local businesses and public institutions that line Main Street are her settings. “Castle 4” is about the hospital, “Deliverance” set at the soup kitchen. “Tenderfoot” concerns a widowed pedicurist with a knack for drawing private confessions from her customers. “Puck” and “Assisted Living” both take place at the antique shop Forget Me Not, where the proprietor, Rennie, has acquired a deep knowledge of the townspeople’s private possessions and infatuations: “As usual [Cathy Lovell the artist] tried on all the art nouveau jewelry. She bought a Lalique pin. She’d return it in a few days, again as usual. Yuri the fix-it man came in hunting for old radios; he wanted to scavenge their insides. Mr. Brown, who had a high, freckled dome, came in to buy a bracelet for a beautiful girlfriend and a similar but less expensive bracelet for a less favored one. Rennie suspected that neither of these women existed. Many of her customers were subject to harmless delusions.”The trigger for Ms. Pearlman’s stories tends to be a disruption to routines or some jarring affront to the locals’ New England reserve. In “Cul-de-Sac,” a transplant from Jerusalem horrifies (and secretly impresses) her prim, gentile neighbors by treating them with the unfiltered intimacy usually given only to family members—“her intensity makes you feel charred,” one remarks. A complacent marriage in “Flowers” is upturned when the wife receives a bouquet from an anonymous admirer. The sly, haunting “What the Ax Forgets the Tree Remembers” centers on Gabrielle, who has thrown herself with vigor into running the Society Against Female Mutilation after her hysterectomy stirs an imagined kinship with the “terrified damsels” a continent away. But when a Somali woman she has invited to give a speech denies that the procedure caused her any trauma, Gabrielle realizes how invested she has become in the idea of a global sisterhood of suffering. One of the richest, deftest, most delightful stories, “Blessed Harry,” begins when woolgathering high-school Latin teacher Myron Flaxbaum receives a surprise invitation to lecture at Kings College in London on “The Mystery of Life and Death.” The invitation is a prank, but in a series of domestic vignettes that shuffle among the perspectives of the family members (a technically challenging feat that Ms. Pearlman pulls off effortlessly), the story lovingly registers the small disturbances in the rhythms of home that the illusion brings. As for life and death, “they were incidental,” Flaxbaum’s wife concludes while secretly observing her honorable, unrenowned husband. “But what counted was how you behaved while death let you live, and how you met death when life released you.”Even when little happens in them, these stories generally share the assured, gyroscopic qualities of “Blessed Harry.” The title story (about a high-school headmistress, an anorexic student and the student’s father, who is romantically involved with the headmistress) moves briskly among the points of view of the trio, allowing us to see each at different angles and along different biases. “People adjust to contradictions,” one figure in the book says. Character seems constructed of contradictions in Ms. Pearlman’s marvelously populated fictional world, and her stories are found in that never-ending process of adjustment.