Two Legs, Five Boroughs  ‘East Side, West Side, all around the town”: The songs have changed, the city has changed, but the sidewalks of New York retain their beauty and ugliness, their appeal and frightfulness. Manhattan disappears and reappears, constantly remaking itself architecturally and demographically. Cynthia Ozick has called the city “faithfully inconstant, magnetic, man-made, unnatural” and has hit brilliantly on a two-word label: the “synthetic sublime.” Writers in particular have registered their impressions in newspaper accounts, essays, stories and poems. To see, hear and smell the urban scene, they have walked the city’s streets.Stephen Miller’s “Walking New York” surveys an urban and literary landscape, focusing on writers who have taken Manhattan as turf, laboratory and crucible for their creations. After introductory chapters on urban strollers in the Old World and on English writers who came to visit (Dickens, the Trollopes), he settles down with his primary subjects: Walt Whitman, Herman Melville, William Dean Howells, Henry James and other 19th-century eminences; Alfred Kazin and Elizabeth Hardwick from the 20th-century literary world; and, entering the new century, Colson Whitehead and Teju Cole, among others.Along the way, Mr. Miller gives us a portrait of the city in its many incarnations. As he reminds us, it was long a dangerous, putrid, dirty and noisy place. In 1851, the American diarist George Templeton Strong called it “a whorearchy,” with prostitutes everywhere, not to mention mud and excrement. More than two million pounds of horse manure were deposited every day until the electric trolley came along, and then the automobile gradually put the horses out of business—except for the tourist carriage trade (the new mayor is trying to put an end to that, too).Today the city is better and cleaner than ever before, thanks to the efforts of mayors Rudy Giuliani and 




      Michael Bloomberg.




       But it wasn’t so long ago that it was going through another period of dirt and distress. In 1990, Hardwick lamented the status of “our hysterical, battered and battering, pot-holed bankrupt metropolis.” Times Square was a squalid zone until it was remade, in the 1990s, as a family-friendly, semi-Disneyfied entertainment crossroads.For a young person in Manhattan in the new millennium, it must be hard to envision the graffiti-covered, garbage-strewn, grittier city of the 1970s and ’80s, torched by arson and blighted by disease. Aging hipsters may look back on the New York of those years as a cauldron of creativity, but others may not be so nostalgic. In any case, formerly bohemian neighborhoods have gone the way of condominiumized gentrification. Meanwhile, Queens has become the most ethnically and linguistically diverse enclave in the world; artists flee to ever remoter Brooklyn precincts; parts of Staten Island, so near and yet so far, retain a 19th-century charm. Even the South Bronx, once the symbol of total failure, has begun to bloom.But Manhattan remains both the jewel in the crown and the magnet for people who come in search of love, fame, success and publicity (or anonymity)—something unavailable back home. These are the people that E.B. White called the lifeblood of the city in “Here Is New York” (1949), the most famous essay about Manhattan, written just as White himself was decamping permanently for rural Maine. Mr. Miller cites White saying that New Yorkers have a “sense of belonging to something unique, cosmopolitan, mighty and unparalleled.” White’s New Yorker colleague Joseph Mitchell wandered the streets as whim dictated, seeking out the city’s stranger characters.“Walking New York” is mostly a stroll through our literary history, and many of Mr. Miller’s chapters are modest specimens of literary criticism. He notes that the heroine of Theodore Dreiser’s “Sister Carrie,” after walking down Broadway, conceives of a “new idea” of the city’s “possibilities,” and of course these possibilities help to propel the novel. We see Stephen Crane, “in search of material,” walking the city’s streets “dressed like a tramp.” Mr. Miller cites a passage from Howells’s “A Hazard of New Fortunes” in which a character praises the experience of the elevated trains, with the “fleeting intimacy” they offer of “people in second and third floor windows.”Mr. Miller is an amiable guide, filling his chapters with interesting facts and reminders of how Manhattan has always both embodied change and retained constancy. His prose, though, can be flat-footed. He tells us that Kazin “was an influential literary critic in the post-War era,” that he “was steeped in the classics of American literature,” that Hardwick “did not like neoconservatives,” that the 16th-century philosopher Paracelsus “was interested in a question that psychiatrists wrestle with: how to understand people.” Such writing pales by comparison with the passionate, memorable styles of the masters.Henry James, mandarin to the end, didn’t much like skyscrapers, which he called “the most piercing notes in that concert of the expensively provisional into which your supreme sense of New York resolves itself.” Philadelphia lacked them—“the note of the perpetual perpendicular”—but James found Philly stolid and dull. He preferred the “violent impossibility . . . the pride and power” of his native city. Attuned as he was to irony—none of Emerson’s foolish consistency for him—James was both proud of and repelled by the waves of immigrants he encountered. On the one hand, visiting Ellis Island, he referred to “the replenishing of our huge national pot au feu.” On the other, talking to Jewish writers on the Lower East Side, he called their cafes “torture rooms of the living idiom.” The dynamics of immigration he understood; linguistic differences brought out the expatriate snob in him.With one exception, Mr. Miller’s writers had similarly ambivalent, sometimes self-contradictory responses. Kazin, who walked the streets in search of his beloved 19th-century writers, found the Upper West Side in the 1970s and ’80s a repository of “every possible color of skin, decrepitude, eccentricity.” This was not praise. Hardwick, registering the pathos and desperation of the population, still thought of New York as “a very good place for women.”Whitman was the exception. He took to the city with lusty democratic exuberance. Mr. Miller’s Whitman chapter, alas, is his least lively. It reads like data interspersed with quotations, with little literary analysis. But the Whitman passages remind us of what great writing is, as in “Crossing Brooklyn Ferry”: “the glories strung like beads on my smallest sights and hearings—on the walk in the street, and the passage over the river.”James Weldon Johnson, from Jacksonville, Fla., felt that he “was born to be a New Yorker.” To him, and to countless others, the words of Scott Fitzgerald’s Nick Carraway, narrator of “The Great Gatsby,” will always ring true. Manhattan, when viewed from the Queensboro Bridge or—for other people—from other vantage points (the Palisades, say, or a car heading south along the Henry Hudson Parkway), becomes repository and symbol “in its first wild promise of all the mystery and the beauty in the world.”