U.S. Factories Head Into 2015 With Optimistic Eye U.S. factories, coming off their best performance since 2010, enter the new year optimistic that a December slowdown in growth will be a temporary blip.The Institute for Supply Management on Friday said its purchasing managers’ index fell to 55.5 in December. That is down from 58.7 in November and below the 57.4 forecast by economists. For the year, the PMI averaged 55.8, the best reading since the first full year after the 2007-09 recession.The weaker reading, while still reflecting a sector in expansion, comes amid worries about how a slowing global economy might affect demand for U.S. goods.“It makes sense that manufacturing activity should be coming off the boil when global demand has eased and the dollar has risen,” 




      Paul Dales, 




       senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics, said in a research note. “But the strength of domestic demand will ensure that industry and the wider economy still perform particularly well in 2015.”Helping U.S. manufacturers skirt the demand weakness besetting many foreign goods-producers: Falling oil prices, stronger domestic job growth and rising profits have boosted U.S. spending. After hitting multiyear highs in October and November, the ISM orders index slowed only a bit to 57.3 in December. Production also slowed, to 58.8, but like new orders, the drop followed strong readings in the previous months. “It is hard to believe that firms ramped up hiring if they were worried that conditions were weakening significantly,” said 




      Joel Naroff, 




       president of Naroff Economic Advisors. The Labor Department will report on December payrolls on January 9. Mr. Naroff forecasts total nonfarm jobs increased 249,000 with factory payrolls up 18,000.“We are seeing more demand from new customers and more orders from our existing customer base,” he said. The company, which makes industrial brushes as well as a consumer product, the FootMate System, plans in 2015 to spend “another couple million on capital spending and add 25 workers at least,” Mr. Schechter added.Bradley J. Holcomb who oversees the factory survey for the ISM, said a survey the institute took in December showed that respondents on average expected revenues to grow 5.6% in 2015, allowing employment to rise 1.5% and capital spending to increase 3.7%. One negative aspect in the ISM report was the impact from labor disputes that are slowing traffic in the ports along the West Coast. “Problems at West Coast ports are affecting inventories and supplier deliveries,” said Mr. Holcomb. “Manufacturers are starting work-arounds to the port problems,” he said. One respondent to the ISM report said, “We are air freighting many parts from Japan and Asia to support production while parts sit at the dock.”The ISM report also showed the impact from falling energy prices. The December ISM price index fell to 38.5—the lowest since June 2012—from 44.5 in November. The drop in energy prices is a double-edged sword for manufacturing, said Mr. Holcomb. “It’s lowering costs for many producers, but we are seeing a negative impact from petroleum-related manufacturers.” One respondent in the computer and electronics sector expected business from energy-related markets would start slowing.Still, for most industries, cheaper prices of oil and other energy products have been a plus since they lower input costs and allow customers to spend more on non-energy items.“The shale revolution has made U.S. plastics a competitive industry,” said William R. Carteaux, chief executive of SPI, the plastics industry’s trade association. He said about 85% of U.S.-made plastics are made with natural gas, which fell 32% in price in 2014.Mr. Carteaux said the plastics industry added workers in 2014 and he expects payrolls to keep rising in 2015. In addition he said, more money is being spent on expanding and modernizing facilities. “We are seeing more re-shoring,” Mr. Carteaux said, and foreign companies are looking to establish factories in the U.S.