When Clients Want Out of Fossil-Fuel Stocks “Their approach was to tip-toe into sustainable and responsible investments and then see what happens,” says Dale Wannen, the adviser they approached for help. Mr. Wannen is founder and president of SustainVest Asset Management, a fee-only firm with about 40 clients based in Petaluma, Calif. Then, shortly after becoming clients, the couple said they were considering divesting all their holdings in companies involved in mining or fossil fuels. They asked Mr. Wannen about the types of energy stocks they had. Mr. Wannen firmly believes in investing in every sector, via companies in the S&P 500, to maintain proper diversification and provide protection from volatility in specific industries. He recognizes that, from an SRI standpoint, that means sometimes making compromises. In the energy sector, he looks for what he calls “best in class” companies--that is, those outshining their peers on sustainability and social issues, even if their efforts might not be as extensive as those in companies outside the energy sector. The couple’s stocks included, for example, shares in a natural gas company that Mr. Wannen had recommended because the company had been producing a sustainability report since 2008 and supported climate change legislation. “They were the first to create one,” he says. “Even if they’re being horrible, at least they’re being transparent about it.” The couple also held an oil company that boasted an exceptional diversity program. He cautioned the couple that getting out of all energy stocks would mean missing out on any growth in that dynamic, if often volatile, sector. But he went ahead and, as they had requested, analyzed their individual-stock holdings (their investments in mutual funds were SRI-focused). They had about a half-dozen energy stocks in all in their portfolio, and he delivered a report that he considered balanced, pointing out any improvements the firms had made. Still, the clients decided to divest all of their stocks tied to mining and fossil fuels. “It’s our job to hold a client’s hand through life-changing issues or when someone passes away,” Mr. Wannen says. “But it’s also our job to hold their hand through their investments so they don’t have to turn a blind eye to their portfolio. They can open their up their statements and feel proud.” 