Backyard Weed Is None of the Government’s Business In response to David Rivkin Jr. and Elizabeth Price Foley’s Dec. 29 op-ed “Federal Antidrug Law Goes Up in Smoke”: The authors assert that Colorado’s marijuana law is “a full-scale defiance of the CSA (Controlled Substance Act). When federal power has been legitimately invoked, states may not go rogue.”How is this any different than the subject of abortion? Roe v. Wade legalized abortion (until viability) in 1973 but states have been going “rogue” ever since. Some states now require women to watch an ultrasound of the fetus or limit abortions to those under six weeks. Really? One barely knows about the pregnancy by then. States are self-regulating marijuana like abortion. But no one is mounting a campaign to support women in their decision to have an abortion until viability. No one cares if she has to travel hundreds of miles to another state to get it or resorts to an unsafe abortion.The authors miss the point entirely by using Gonzales v. Raich as evidence that federal jurisdiction over home-grown marijuana for personal use “has been legitimately invoked.” It is as absurd to think marijuana grown at home for personal use affects interstate commerce as it is to think the tomatoes I grow in my garden affect interstate commerce and should likewise be subject to federal regulation. While the conservative Justice 




      Antonin Scalia




       jumped ship in Raich, the stalwart Justice 




      Clarence Thomas




       with his usual adherence to the written word of the Constitution did not. He wrote in dissent that “in the early days of the Republic, it would have been unthinkable that Congress could prohibit the local cultivation, possession, and consumption of marijuana,” and warned, “if the Federal Government can regulate growing a half-dozen cannabis plants for personal consumption . . . then Congress’ Article I powers . . . have no meaningful limits.” Justice Thomas then concludes: “If the majority is to be taken seriously, the Federal Government may now regulate quilting bees, clothes drives, and potluck suppers throughout the 50 States. This makes a mockery of Madison’s assurance to the people of New York that the ‘powers delegated to the Federal Government are ‘few and defined’, while those of the States are ‘numerous and indefinite.’” Mr. Rivkin and Ms. Foley, Congress, and the majority in Raich got it badly wrong. It is as absurd to think marijuana grown at home for personal use affects interstate commerce as it is think the tomatoes I grow in my garden affect interstate commerce and should likewise be subject to federal regulation. 