Cuomo Inaugurated, Outlines Goals in Two Speeches New York Gov. 




      Andrew Cuomo




       was inaugurated for a second term on Thursday, delivering two speeches on the same day in which he sought to position himself as a middle-of-the-road problem solver who can speak to issues of both national sensitivity and local concern. Speaking first from the 64th floor of the gleaming One World Trade Center in Manhattan, flanked by Democratic allies, Mr. Cuomo addressed national issues including criminal justice, education and economic disparity.“There is no small solution to big problems,” Mr. Cuomo said, referring to issues such as gender inequality and incarceration rates. “Because in many ways the most severe problems we face go beyond the borders of our state.”In a second set of remarks, held at a Buffalo museum later Thursday afternoon, Mr. Cuomo emphasized a wholly different concern: the revitalization of the upstate New York economy.In both speeches, Mr. Cuomo extolled the work of his first term—saying he had helped create jobs, legalize same-sex marriage and reboot the city of Buffalo—before addressing big challenges the state still faces.In New York City, Mr. Cuomo discussed recent tensions that have boiled up over police-community relations—including demonstrations after a verdict not to indict a police officer in the death of 




      Eric Garner, 




       and the recent killing of two officers. “Everyone is talking and no one is listening,” said Mr. Cuomo, who is believed to have aspirations for higher office. “The truth is, the justice system does need reform. The truth is, police officers need more safety and more protection.”New York City Mayor 




      Bill de Blasio




       and Patrick Lynch, president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association—and a harsh critic of the mayor—were both in attendance.Mr. Cuomo also spoke at length in New York City about education and economic inequality. The latter issue is close to the hearts of Democrats who have often been considered more liberal than Mr. Cuomo in recent years, such as Mr. de Blasio.“Too many Americans are questioning the long-held belief that their children’s future will be better than their own,” Mr. Cuomo said. “Today we have two education systems…one for the rich, and one for the poor. If you happen to be born in the wrong zip code…you can get left behind.”The governor, who has invested state funds into Buffalo, said he would replicate the model elsewhere upstate: “When it comes to economic revitalization, if it worked in Buffalo, it’s going to work in Utica, Rochester and all across New York.”“It’s like he’s living in a different upstate New York,” said Assemblyman Bill Nojay, an upstate Republican. “I heard self-congratulatory rhetoric, but I didn’t hear a single proposal that would take the upstate economy out of the doldrums.” 




      Ken Sherrill, 




       a political-science professor at Hunter College, said Mr. Cuomo sought to cast himself as a national figure who hasn’t lost touch with his local constituents. Assembly Speaker 




      Sheldon Silver, 




       a veteran Albany lawmaker, said Mr. Cuomo’s remarks were a primer for the legislative session ahead, along with the governor’s coming State of the State speech and later budget presentation. “When you put it all together, you see the framework of what the governor hopes to accomplish,” said Mr. Silver. “It’s kind of like a trilogy. This is just the introduction.”