Insider’s Guide to Melbourne  IT’S A BIT of a cliché to refer to Melbourne as the “Paris of the antipodes.” Still, stand on the Southbank pedestrian bridge that crosses the Yarra River as it wends its way through the city, and a certain European capital comes to mind. Padlocks left by lovers dangle from guard wires, echoing those on the Pont des Arts; the clock tower of the Edwardian-era Flinders Street Railway Station watches over the north bank of the river, as the Gare de Lyon does over the Seine.The Yarra’s silty water is roughly the color of cafe au lait—appropriate for a metropolis that takes its brew seriously. Good coffee is practically considered a birthright, whether it’s from a tiny shop tucked into a narrow arcade, like the Switchboard Cafe in the city’s center, or a grand, old-world-style institution, like the European, across from Parliament House. (A flat white—velvety steamed milk poured over espresso—is the go-to cuppa.)All that caffeine is put to good use, as Melbourne is known as Australia’s creative capital. There is always a performance or a gallery opening to check out, and getting to everything is a snap. The sprawling tram network—the largest in the world—blurs the line between city and suburb. Hip enclaves like Fitzroy to Melbourne’s north and St Kilda, on Port Phillip Bay to the south, are easily accessed from downtown. If you do get to St Kilda, visit the small colony of penguins on the breakwater; the birds’ feathers, like many Melburnians’ clothes, are mostly monochrome.If all this seems excessively urbane, go watch one of the city’s Australian Rules Football teams play. Minimalist black is traded for team colors, flat whites give way to beer and meat pies, and fans barrack for their teams without restraint. Though it may evoke some parts of Europe, Melbourne has a modern, casual feel and flair that’s all its own. The Paris that felt so close on the Southbank Bridge can also feel 10,000 miles away, which it just about is.  TUNE TRAIN // The Toff in Town. A great venue for live music, this is a pretty intimate room with an adjoining restaurant that’s open late. It’s set up like an old train carriage, with private booths. You can close the doors and buzz for service. Curtin House, 252 Swanston St., Second Floor, thetoffintown.com   CHIC EATS // Ilona Staller. Situated on quirky Carlisle Street and named after the Italian-Hungarian porn star. The menu is wonderfully eclectic; I’ll often go for the leek-stuffed chicken and the garlic bruschetta. 282-284 Carlisle St., ilonastaller.com.au   Covert Cafe // MART 130 . A secret local spot disguised in an old tram stop on the #96 route. It’s one of my favorite breakfast haunts because of the covered deck overlooking Albert Park. 107A Canterbury Rd., mart130cafe.com.au   GREEN GETAWAY // Albert Park Lake . Although it’s just 10 minutes from the city, the grassy wetlands provide a haven for dozens of species. There are numerous picnic and barbecue areas, running and cycling tracks, sailing clubs and sporting grounds.  parkweb.vic.gov.au   Aqua ESCAPE // St Kilda Sea Baths. This historic building opened in the 19th century and was later rebuilt. Now it has restaurants, cafes, shops and a heated indoor seawater pool. 10-18 Jacka Blvd., St Kilda, stkildaseabaths.com.au   MINI MUSEUM // City Gallery. A tiny space in the Melbourne town hall that hosts exhibitions on local/historical themes—taxis, newsboys and manhole covers, to name a recent few. 110 Swanston St., melbourne.vic.gov.au   TOME TEMPLE // State Library of Victoria. The majestic domed reading room (est. 1913) has metamorphosed from well-kept secret to beloved civic icon. Back when bronze sheathing covered the skylights and book stacks filled the upper galleries, the immense space seemed somber, even gothic. Now, sunlight pours in and first-time visitors halt in the doorway, dazzled. 328 Swanston St., slv.vic.gov.au   PLAYFUL EMPORIUM // Corky Saint Clair. A grotto-like boutique specializing in Melbourne-made jewelry and knickknacks. My latest purchase: a cast-iron bear’s head bottle opener. Finding Corky’s is half the fun. Shadowy stairs lead down from street level to a low-ceilinged arcade that passes under the roadway, to Flinders Street Railway Station. 3 Degraves Street Subway, corkysaintclair.com   Book Nook // City Basement Books. There’s nothing sniffy or antiquarian about this secondhand shop. Shelves are chock full—even the shelf-ends are plastered with pamphlets and tracts. The ratio of gloom to illumination is just right for browsing. 342 Flinders St., citybasementbooks.com.au   SCENIC SIPS // Siglo. One of Melbourne’s best bars. The view is of the prestigious Parliament House building at the charming end of Collins Street, and the scene is relaxed and cool. The tapas-style menu is served until all hours of the night; the duck liver on brioche is very, very good. 161 Spring St., theeuropean.com.au   HOT SHOP // Craft Victoria. Australian artists, craftspeople and makers-of-great-things showcase their work in this Flinders Lane space. The shop/gallery is constantly changing its mix, which includes ceramics, textiles, wall art, jewelry and mad and amazing pieces you can purchase without taking out a loan. 31 Flinders Lane, craft.org.au   LATIN Flavors // Sonido. My local go-to for coffee, cheesy arepas and coconut icypoles (ice pops). Best arepas this side of South America. Outside seating allows for people-spotting and you might catch one of the owners, Santiago Villamizar, putting a record on the turntable during evening cocktail hour. 69 Gertrude St., sonido.com.au   PASTORAL GALLERY // Heide Museum of Modern Art. Set in 15 acres of parkland in the suburbs, the Heide was founded in the ’30s by a couple who supported local art. It showcases some of the best contemporary work amid its amazing architecture and gardens. Have lunch at Cafe Vue at Heide, and don’t miss the shop that sells great Australian designer objects and books. 7 Templestowe Rd., Bulleen, heide.com.au   Best Bazaar // Queen Victoria Market. I especially love walking the cool terrazzo-floored halls of the deli section. You can compose the most perfect picnic with smoked meats from the Polish Deli, local game from the Chicken Pantry, and the best of cheese and cold cuts. Corner of Victoria and Elizabeth Streets, qvm.com.au   COFFEE SPOT // Seven Seeds. A good, healthy breakfast or light lunch can be found here, but the coffee is the hero. Co-owner 




      Mark Dundon




       pioneered small-batch roasting in Melbourne at the iconic Brunswick cafe Ray’s. He has a great eye, and his places hum from the minute they open in the morning. 106-114 Berkeley St., Carlton, sevenseeds.com.au   VENERABLE VENUE // Forum Theatre. My first cinema experience was at the Forum. I remember vividly the tram ride into the city and being awe-struck by the grandeur of the interior, with its Romanesque friezes and night-sky frescoes. Today, the Forum is home to Melbourne’s film and comedy festivals and is a performance space for live bands. 154 Flinders St., forummelbourne.com.au   Authentic Asian  // Yu-U. A well-hidden gem, this slick Japanese restaurant below street level is more than 15 years old. It is the real deal, with exceptional sashimi and yakitori and homemade soba noodles. The $20 lunch special is one of Melbourne’s best-kept secrets. 137 Flinders Lane, +61-3-9639-7073  Vue de monde. While the views from 




      Shannon Bennett’s




       restaurant on the 55th floor of the Rialto Building are incredible, dishes like kangaroo with beetroot and munthari berries will focus your attention on the plate.  vuedemonde.com.au   The Larwill Studio. The latest establishment from the Art Series Hotel Group, each of whose properties is inspired by the work of a single Australian contemporary artist—in this case, neo-expressionist David Larwill.  artserieshotels.com.au   Ian Potter Centre: NGV Australia. With some 20 galleries dedicated to Australian art, this Federation Square museum, part of the National Gallery of Victoria, is essential viewing.  ngv.vic.gov.au   Patricia Coffee Brewers. A tiny, well-hidden weekday coffee spot. It’s standing room only, unless you take a seat on one of the milk crates outside. Order a flask of iced coffee and a pastry.  patriciacoffee.com.au  