Migrant Workers, Visitors Among Victims of Shanghai New Year’s Stampede SHANGHAI—For 




      Pan Haiqin, 




       a 24-year-old property agent on a tight budget, a free light show on New Year’s Eve was a chance for an inexpensive, fun night out.But when the crowd unexpectedly shifted, she was lost in the crush of bodies, becoming one of 36 victims of a stampede that dimmed the shine of a city that celebrates glamour. Many of the casualties were young women like Ms. Pan, a daughter of migrant laborers, whose choice of a yellow jacket and high heels to ring in 2015 might have looked out of place back home in less-cosmopolitan Jiangxi province.The bright lights of Shanghai’s famed Bund district draw people from around the world, but especially those from other parts of China looking for a glimpse into the future of a fast-changing nation.Among them were Liang Jijun. who had taken a train to visit a former classmate working for an Internet company, and 17-year-old 




      Chen Changsheng




       from Shandong, who only days before had headed to Shanghai to look for work.Their friends and family members spent New Year’s Day in the dank entrance hall of Shanghai No. 1 People’s Hospital, pressing hospital staff to confirm who was being treated there.Dozens of police barricaded themselves behind rows of chairs, regularly jostling people trying to enter the hospital, including a man in a black leather hat who identified himself as Mr. Chen’s grandfather. “My child isn’t confirmed alive or dead but you just won’t let me in,” he shouted.The government released a list of 32 dead early Friday, which included the names of both Ms. Pan and Mr. Cheng. The youngest victim so far identified was a 12-year-old-boy. A profile posted online with Ms. Pan’s real-estate agency says she enjoys traveling, badminton and jogging as well as barbecue. One of her favorite novels is “Norwegian Wood” by Japanese author 




      Haruki Marukami.




      A half-dozen of her co-workers rushed to the No. 1 hospital when word spread she had fallen in the crowd. All day they sat in their holiday best waiting for Ms. Pan’s mother to arrive and get an official update on her condition.“She is so kind and nice,” one said of her co-worker. Ms. Pan’s friends said she was always on a budget, careful to buy her clothes online, to help pay for her teenage brother’s education.For reasons no one seems sure of, the crowd swelled a half-hour before midnight, one friend said. “We were all stuck, couldn’t move around,” he said. He recalls people and police shouting “back up.” But he said there weren’t enough police.She was unconscious when he finally found her several minutes later, he said. She was in a pile another friend described as layers, her clothes in shreds. When Ms. Pan’s mother arrived at the hospital, she was shown photographs. Friends said that the mother—who didn’t speak to the media—identified her daughter by a red bracelet that she had worn for four years.