Overseas Headwinds Test U.S. Economy The U.S. economy enters 2015 with the strongest momentum in at least a decade and as the fittest of all the industrialized nations. The question is whether that muscle can help yank the rest of the world out of its doldrums.“Our expectation is for a fairly robust U.S. economy, and that’s where the good news starts and ends,” said 




      Adolfo Laurenti, 




       chief international economist for investment and advisory firm Mesirow Financial. “Everything else in the world looks choppy.”The nation added 2.7 million jobs in 2014 through November, the best year for employment growth since 1999. Economic output registered its best six-month stretch since 2003. Claims for jobless benefits have been running lower than at any point since 2000.But after six slow years of economic recovery, the test for the U.S. is no longer just about overcoming employer reluctance to hire and lingering damage from the housing bubble. It is whether the U.S. can thrive when so much of the world is stumbling.Plunging oil prices, while good for consumers and their spending power, are expected to slow economic growth in petroleum-producing regions ranging from Russia to Africa to Latin America. Geopolitical worries from the Middle East to Eastern Europe hang over swaths of the globe. The eurozone remains lethargic with some of its members, like Italy, tumbling into a third recession since the financial crisis.China’s economy, long seen as a global growth engine, has been hit by slumping real estate, weak domestic demand and tumbling industrial production. In the third quarter, China grew 7.3% from a year earlier, but that was its slowest rate in five years. Japan has notched two quarters of contraction, heralding another recession.Many of the world’s politicians and central bankers are struggling to jump-start the global economy, either because of the challenges of debt overhangs and aging demographics in advanced economies or because of an unwillingness to deploy some of their own powers in unpopular ways.In this world of rising risks, many companies seek out the U.S. as a safe harbor. “The geopolitical developments matter much more than many people believe,” 




      Joe Kaeser, 




       chief executive of 






            Siemens
 AG


       of Germany, said in a presentation last month. “That’s why we invest in the United States, as certainly the most attractive, most safe geopolitical region.”The Asian and Russian financial crises of the late 1990s caused a scare, and even led to the implosion of a major U.S. hedge fund. But “even though there was a big slowdown in global industrial production, it had essentially zero effect on the U.S. economy,” said 






            Wells Fargo
            


       global economist 




      Jay Bryson.




       “In the modern era, I cannot think of a cycle here that was caused by a slowdown abroad.”The rest of the world, too, has become less dependent on the U.S., blunting the positive impact of a healthier U.S. economy. As recently as 2002, the U.S. accounted for 32% of world GDP, according to the World Bank. That share declined over the next decade and has sat around 22% since 2011. The U.S. is by far the world’s largest importer, but it accounts for just 13% of global imports, down from 16% in 2005.The world is more globalized than ever before, and the linkages among financial markets have increased. But the U.S. is less reliant on trade than any other economy. According to the World Bank, exports made up 14% of U.S. GDP in 2012, the most recent year for which full international figures are available. That compared with 27% for China, 32% for the U.K., and 45% for the eurozone.Recent recessions underscore the point that the U.S. economy often acts on its own. The recession that began in 2007 followed the crumbling of U.S. home prices and was exacerbated by the collapse of U.S. financial institutions. The 2001 recession came amid a bursting tech-stock bubble. Recessions in the early 1980s and ’90s came after monetary tightening campaigns by the Federal Reserve. Soaring oil prices choked the economy in the 1970s.Federal Reserve Chairwoman 




      Janet Yellen




       has laid the groundwork for the central bank to raise interest rates around midyear, bringing to an end a nearly seven-year era of short-term interest rates near zero. But she will need the economy to cooperate in order to unite the Federal Open Market Committee around a campaign to tighten monetary policy.The U.S. has now recovered all the jobs lost during the recession and enters 2015 with record employment, and if recent trends continue, the labor market this year will reach the Fed’s estimates for what is considered full employment. Yet not all is well. The labor-force participation rate is near the lowest since the 1970s, wage growth has remained weak, and an elevated number of part-time workers want, but can’t find, full-time work. Those who become unemployed remain that way for an unusually long time.Meanwhile, measures of inflation are likely to drift even further from the Fed’s goals. The central bank believes inflation below 2% makes it harder for people to pay off debts, and more difficult for monetary policy to goose the economy.“Markets are strongly hinting that global deflationary trends are so strong the Fed will have trouble hitting 2% for quite some time,” said 




      Michael Gapen, 




       chief U.S. economist for 






        Barclays
        


       and a former Fed economist.The European Central Bank and 






            Bank of Japan
            


       may see their goals of juicing economic growth complicated by falling inflation. Already, aging populations and enormous debt burdens—problems that can’t be swiftly addressed—weigh on economic growth. Japan and Europe appear set to move toward further monetary easing in 2015 even as the Fed begins tightening. Those divergent policy paths could pose a new family of challenges.The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed above 18000 for the first time in late December. If the bull market continues to March, it will be six years old. But the tide of buoyant markets has a history of turning when least expected, and a tightening of U.S. monetary policy could create a challenging environment for equities. 