Shanghai New Year’s Eve Stampede Kills at Least 35, Authorities Say SHANGHAI—At least 35 people were crushed to death during a New Year’s Eve midnight-countdown gathering along Shanghai’s riverfront late Wednesday, according to local authorities.The incident near a building called the Peace Hotel also injured more than 40 other people, according to city government-run publications including the official news portal Eastday.com. China’s official Xinhua News Agency called the incident on the historic Bund a “stampede” and said the injured were sent to local hospitals.It wasn’t clear what triggered the movement of people in the crowded area shortly before midnight. Andrew Jordan Shainker, 28, an American teacher in Shanghai who said he watched the stampede from a nearby restaurant, said he saw two bodies taken out at around 11:30 p.m. “Then 15 minute later they started coming out by the dozens,” he said.Eastday.com quoted a witness saying people moved between areas on the riverfront in the 20 minutes before midnight, possibly to grab fake paper money it said was being thrown to the crowd. It wasn’t clear whether the fake money caused the stampede. A team of police on Thursday were scouring a seventh-floor rooftop club venue in a building called Bund 18, but their intent wasn’t clear. A woman with the police said the fake currency came from a fourth-floor club in the building called M18. The currency resembles a U.S. $100 note but with the club name inscribed.Management of the club didn’t respond to requests for comment. An M18 employee said the fake bills were decorations stacked on a table at the club and available to clubgoers. The employee said he wasn’t aware of the fatalities at the time.At the M18 venue Thursday morning, one of the fake notes lay on the floor at the front door, under a giant mirror ball, along with a party favor resembling a firecracker.The Eastday portal said officials were treating the injured at four local hospitals. It also showed photos of Politburo member and former Shanghai Mayor 




      Han Zheng




       and the current mayor, 




      Yang Xiong, 




       in an emergency meeting after the incident.Information was in short supply in the hall of the crowded No. 1 hospital. Sick people lay in beds around the lobby, though many appeared to be overflow patients rather than victims of the stampede. Dozens of police officers were also in the lobby.A woman with reddened eyes said she was looking for her son who was at the Bund, but she doesn’t know his situation. A man held aloft a photocopy of his son’s photograph.The riverside midnight-countdown event features a light show over two sides of the Huangpu River and is normally heavily attended along several riverside blocks. Typically, local authorities block off streets from traffic and give revelers a rare opportunity to walk on the wide street in front of the city’s waterfront buildings that date to the early part of the 20th century. It was unclear from a few blocks away what had taken place on the Bund. Immediately before midnight, the small number of police on one street leading perpendicular to the Bund appeared to struggle to control a crowd that at times surged one way or another, initially running toward the Bund and later away from it. The countdown event was moved to a new location along the Bund this year because of concerns about a surging crowd in past years, according to local authorities quoted by official media. More than 300,000 attended last year and it led to traffic chaos, according to a report earlier this week in the Shanghai Daily.The report said the 2015 countdown was scheduled to feature a light show inspired by traditional bronze wares, blue and white porcelain and terra cotta. Another would touch on modern costumes and events held in the city.Local media showed photos of people collapsed on the ground at the intersection of Nanjing Road and Zhongshan East Road, which is marked by a historic building known as the Peace Hotel completed in 1929. The area is also known as Chen Yi Square for a former mayor. Police vehicles were shown on the scene.The incident recalls the crushing deaths of around 20 people on a hilly Hong Kong street as people there greeted the year 1993. In that incident, wet ground and a slope contributed to the deaths, authorities said.