Stock Bulls Risk Getting Trampled  




      Savita Subramanian, 




       head of U.S. Equity and Quantitative Strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, says stocks will continue to gain in 2015, but at a more moderate pace.The backdrop for U.S. stocks remains favorable: While the U.S. economy has recovered sufficiently for the Federal Reserve to end its unprecedented bond-buying program, eventual increases in interest rates are likely to be slow enough not to impede future recovery. The Fed is widely expected to begin raising rates in the second half of 2015. Until then, there will be no tightening or easing of monetary policy by the Fed. Such periods tend to be positive for stocks; the last two brought double-digit returns, according to Bank of America Merrill LynchThe S&P 500 has more than tripled from its March 2009 low. U.S. corporate earnings should continue to grow, fueling further gains in stocks, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. And investors still have piles of cash that could trickle back into the stock market during any pullbacks.All of this boils down to the bank’s expectation that the S&P 500 will rise to 2200 by the end of 2015. The roughly 7% return implied by the forecast marks the lowest projected return since Ms. Subramanian started making such projections in 2011. Savita Subramanian: The contribution from oil prices to earnings is actually larger than the lift to consumption [spurred by lower oil prices]. ... It’s really this issue where the sectors that are lifted by lower oil prices are primarily consumer staples, a small amount of consumer-discretionary [stocks], transports, airlines…but the positive there is not enough to offset the negative for the other [sectors]. WSJ: Your 2015 outlook said that stocks still remain attractive relative to bonds, but less so against commodities such as gold and oil. Do you think people will exit stocks in favor of gold or oil? Savita Subramanian: [The] asset-allocation call is a little harder to make now ... It’s still easy to be bullish on stocks, but not easy to say they’re the best thing going, bar none. That’s why we’re toning down our bullishness. Savita Subramanian: There are some reasons that make me believe that we might be in the sixth inning of this bull market rather than the third or fourth. We’ve gone to fuller [price/earnings] multiples, we’ve seen growth start to materialize. If companies [continue] spending—they started to in 2014—that could continue to drive the economy. But that call is harder to make with oil prices as low as they are today. What happens to capital expenditure? It doesn’t get derailed…it slows down a bit. Savita Subramanian: I don’t think we need to worry all that much for the S&P 500. ... If we do get any pickup in inflation pressure, that could be the biggest surprise of 2015. Savita Subramanian: Right now, there’s a mispricing of risk in the market. ... A sector that doesn’t move a lot tends to be associated with safety. These stocks with low price volatility are actually quite expensive. It turns out [there is a] very large subsection of the S&P 500 that has been penalized for being too risky but actually has tremendously stable earnings growth. That might be more important than paying attention to price volatility. Industrials and technology, these are sectors where stocks aren’t labeled as safe havens but the reality is that their earnings have been remarkably stable over time. ... There’s this opportunity to buy really cheap but high-quality stocks via large global brands [in] industrials, big-cap technology. Savita Subramanian: Utilities [are] very expensive. Bond investors [who] have moved out of bonds and into equities bought the most bond-like stocks they could find. If we get any increase in interest rates next year, that could be the death knell for utilities. Savita Subramanian: Utilities tend to work well when yield is scarce, because investors are looking for yield [and] come into equities and buy higher-yielding stocks.…On the margin, what we’ve found is when rates rise [accompanied by better growth], utilities stocks tend to sell off. [There are] more exciting places to get capital appreciation. The yield that utilities offer grows less competitive.